---
title: diffgram
date: 2022-07-31 17:23:20
tags: None
layout: post
---

You might've received recently a few spam messages from [diffgram](https://github.com/diffgram/diffgram). I didn't pay much attention to it until I stumbled across this discussion: [Open source tool scrapes git commit email addresses to send spam to](https://redd.it/wbdul9). And they are removing all issues with complaints. Especially noteworthy is this PR: [Stop spamming](https://github.com/diffgram/diffgram/pull/1007). It clearly shows the malicious actions of the maintainers.

That's why we can't have nice things. I used to have my main email in my GitHub profile, git commits, and metadata of Python packages. This story motivated me to create separate emails for each of these places (I have limit in 10 emails in my current plan, so I can't have a new one everywhere). And contact GitHub support about this story.

I think I can relate to this story. Well, they are doing business, so sending spam is financially viable. But even if it wouldn't be the case, there is a real desperation when you put a lot of effort into a project, but it gets drown in the sea of billions other low quality projects. There is no correlation between GitHub stars and usefulness of the project. Take as an example [nocode](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/nocode) which has 53k stars but close to zero effort and zero usefulness. Just a little joke from a famous guy. So, if you feel your effort isn't appreciated and doesn't get attention it deserves, you're not alone. Don't be desperate, don't overthink it, and don't go spamming.
