---
title: 605
date: 2023-05-17 15:23:01
tags: None
layout: post
---

📝 [My 20 Year Career is Technical Debt or Deprecated](https://blog.visionarycto.com/p/my-20-year-career-is-technical-debt).

I certainly see and feel what the author means. Technologies move at a crazy pace because we always want our tools to be better, more "modern" if you wish. If your Python service isn't a Python 3.10+ microservice on FastAPI with async/await and type annotations, that's it, it's legacy. Just 4 years ago having a Django monolith was fine but not today. And things even worse if you have something on Ruby or PHP. 

We always thrive for new shiny technologies, and a lot of people and projects are left behind. If you don't migrate a project to new stuff, you have troubles hiring smart and agile engineers. If you, as an engineer, don't learn the new technologies, then you stay behind with these projects, without new features (or often even basic bug fixes) and without much happening in the project.

These big old technologies don't die. Ruby on Rails, Laravel, and JQuery still have active development and regular releases, and people still use it in a lot of projects. And engineers with a good experience in COBOL or Fortran are still needed [and paid good enough](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022/#salary-and-experience-by-language) (PHP and Delphi engineers are very underpaid, though). And yet, usually these aren't projects and people making something big. More like maintaining.

Is it good or bad? I'm glad we're making a rapid progress and always want our tools to be better. And yet, some sacrifices were made along the way.
